Reflection
==========

## Last sprint (week 1-2)

1. What went well last week and to which extent have the planned results been achieved?
> The way we set things up from the beginning helped a lot when integrating between the 2 programming teams. The event system and the statemachine made our lives a lot easier by reducing the high coupling found in game logic. This allowed me to worry less about integration. This wasn't something I was directly involved in, but it did influence my results in the end so I figured it'd be worth mentioning here.

> During the first 2 weeks my main task was to work on the Firefly swarms which the player could interact with in the world. At first I decided to make a prototype based on the flocking assignment from the programming course. This led to quick results we could play around with in the editor. It turned out to be quite performance inefficient though, so I started doing some research into Unity's particle system. By doing some research beforehand I was quickly able to create a basic particle emitter for fireflies; though with limited functionality. From this point onward I started experimenting with scripting behaviour ontop of the particlesystem to get the desired behaviour (mix of research and prototyping). This led to a fully functional and way more performant particlesystem-based swarm of fireflies.

2. What did not go well, what annoyed you and what shouldn't happen again?
> During the first week it became clear we hadn't made enough rules surrounding version control and our project files/names/hierarchy. The Unity files quickly became bloated with different versions of models, test files and other things we don't need. To counteract this I discussed with the programming teams to create some basic rules to keep the structure navigable and (mostly) clean. I then chose a day in the week where a minimal amount of people were working in the editor and cleaned up the entire project. In the end this gave us a clear structure to use and removed a lot of excess files we did not need anymore. There was one problem though, and that is the fact that any pullrequests from other branches that did not have this change yet, would be completely incompatible. This caused a few people (myself included) many headaches by trying to integrate some lingering changes from the days before.

> Destructable objects is another thing that could have gone better. I researched multiple implementations but almost all of them involved a large workload for the art team, who already had more than enough to do at this point. On top of that, the one implementation that showed promise is complicated and may take too much time to properly implement in this project (dynamically splitting meshes through code). In hindsight, the research done on this topic prevented me from spending too much time on a complex implementation that may not have seen the light of day. It also prevented the art team from being overworked. In other words: it could be seen as a positive thing too, depending on your viewpoint.

3. What will you improve next time?
> The research I did for the particle system provided me with quite a timesave. I plan on spending a certain amount of time on research for each task (amount depends on the task obviously) in order to make the implementation proces as smooth as possible. This would reduce the risks of having to scrap and re-do things such as my first flocking implementation of the fireflies. During the research phase it would likely be discovered if a task is potentially too time consuming for the project. This would allow me to discuss this with other teammembers before commiting to a feature.

> I should communicate more with both my team and other teams to get feedback in smaller intervals. This helps me steer myself in the right direction and prevents excessive research into subjects that have lower priority (such as destructible objects in this case). Even though the research is mostly beneficial, it can become an issue when time is not managed properly based on priorities. I should therefore plan my time based on task priority and not the amount of tasks like you'd generally start doing.

> I should work a little on my "userfriendlyness" of my scripts. While all of the necessary values are adjustable; not everything is set up in such a way to allow designers to adjust values to anything they can come up with. Taking them into account a little more would also allow me to hand over the fine-tuning of the settings to them. That way I don't lose too much time finalizing things that might end up getting changed by them later anyway.
