Reflection
==========

## Last week

1. What went well last week and to which extent have the planned results been achieved?
> After fixing my issues with the Unity upgrade, I spent the remaining time of the first week by working on volumetric fog. This would be an improvement to the temporary fake fog (2D clouds on the ground) that we showed off on a recent terrible thursday. The implementation based off the Unity documentation was fairly simple and quick, but fine tuning the shape of the fog to make it look less monotone proved difficult. Couple that with a noticeable performance impact and I decided to put the task on hold for now. Implementation in its current state is quick and easy, but fine tuning will waste a lot of time I'd rather spend elsewhere given the low priority. Therefore I decided to start looking into performance improvements so features like this may be possible in the future. (We ended up using non-moving volumetric fog near the end of the project, so I'd say this was a good call to make.)

> In preparation of a task for next week, I started researching performance optimization. I looked into using the profiler and tried to determine what impacts our framerate the most. As far as I could tell we had too many draw calls (batches). This task is in line with my earlier reflection where I stated that I would perform more research beforehand. In this case a lot of time is spent on research due to the complexity of performance optimization. On the other hand, it is a much needed improvement to ensure our game keeps running correctly on our target hardware which would justify the time investment. Therefore I set a personal goal: Attempt to run the game at around 60 frames per second on my own laptop. If that could be achieved it would most definitely run at 60 fps or more on more recent hardware.

2. What did not go well, what annoyed you and what shouldn't happen again?
> The upgrade to the new Unity version brought a lot of trouble for me personally. My Unity lost track of all installed packages (including the package manager itself somehow) and started spewing out loads of errors from the Wwise integration. We are familiar with some issues caused by Wwise already, but this time I seemed to be the only one affected. It turned out my Unity installation got corrupted during the upgrade. Unfortunately there's not much I can do about it to prevent this in the future. I already kept the old installation, but I couldn't use that due to the project now depending on new features. In the end I managed to fix all the issues plagueing my installation, but it took way too much time in my opinion. Next time I should contact someone that can help me like Marco (the Unity expert), but he isn't always available like in this case. Even if he was, there's no guarantee he'd be able to fix such issues. In the end I have to attribute this problem to bad luck, since there was no way to see this coming beforehand.

3. What will you improve next time?
> I'd like to say that I will be more careful when upgrading versions, but I have no real impact on the results of that. One thing is for certain, and that is the fact that upgrading is a bad a idea unless it is absolutely necessary. Therefore I will prevent myself from doing so if I get the chance. In an ideal situation the project team will stick to the Unity version they start out with. Potentially only upgrading minor versions for bug fixes and such. These upgrades should not change the internals of Unity much and therefore won't cause similar issues.

> I need to discuss priorities of tasks a little bit with the gameplay team. If I can determine the priority of tasks better, I can prevent working on them in cases such as the volumetric fog. Sure it took very little time to prototype, but considering the low priority, I should have seen it coming that it would cost too much time to finetune. Another options is to introduce some sort of priority indication on our tasks. This may prove difficult in our case since not all teams use the same issue tracking tools. (Which is something I'd like to change in future projects as well.)
